[Music]
your beliefs dictate your thoughts
dictate your emotions dictate your
actions which produce your results and
your results when you look at them then
just reinforce the original belief
and so we're caught in that construct
right but the linchpin is the belief
system so the question is how do i
actually change what i believe if my
beliefs really do dictate my destiny
right which is i'm not the only person
suggesting that the question becomes how
do i change my beliefs and in that is is
an inherent challenge because by
definition beliefs are that which are
true
right for us and so then then the
question is how do we break out of this
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to impact theory
today's guest joins us as an author
speaker and seven-figure entrepreneur
who is widely recognized as an expert on
mindset and business but ten years ago
he was addicted to drugs and alcohol and
asking himself if this was really all
life had to offer after discovering
firsthand that money cannot buy
happiness he embarked on a process of
getting clean and not only diagnosing
but solving the cause of his suffering
starting a 12-step program and stumbling
upon a book on buddhism in an airport
bookstore made him realize that the root
of his problem lay directly between his
own ears after spending years studying
and coming to understand his own mind
and also working with a bevy of
world-class teachers coaches mentors and
spiritual leaders from around the world
he has emerged with a system that he
believes can help anyone get unstuck and
achieve their full potential he's not
the only one with faith in his methods
he's been featured on businessweek fox
news bloomberg radio msnbc and the los
angeles times and according to inc his
program called the powerful living
experience is one of the top three must
attend personal development events for
entrepreneurs
so please help me in welcoming the man
who has helped countless people
transform their lives the author of mind
hack david bayer
what's up how you doing man so good
thank you absolutely dude welcome to the
show thanks for having me absolutely so
anybody that can go deep on the notion
of getting unstuck is a friend of mine
so i want to start there you've talked
about how there are
three areas of your life that you need
to master and how does that help us get
unstuck
yeah so i mean there's there's three
areas of your life that you know i think
are important right one is um really
mastering uh your your mind right your
thought process and um and that's
nothing new the real question is you
know at one level how do we become more
self-aware of the thoughts that are
driving all of our process but more
importantly how do we change our
thinking how do we change the habitual
patterns of thinking that we become
addicted to and so that then cascades
into you know our emotional responses
that we have with with life around us
and and our in our perceptions so how do
we reorient ourselves in a way that is
congruent with the life that we actually
want to create or the business that we
want to create or the relationships that
we want to create or the health that we
want to have
because we tend to just continue to
experience the same experiences over and
over and over and over and there's
nothing fundamentally wrong with us in
the fact that that we live this sort of
bill murray groundhog day type of
existence right it's the way the
technology and the operating system of
the human being has been designed but
now we're entering this really
interesting
period where i think personal growth is
evolving into the next level where we're
able to utilize the tech to really tap
into higher levels of intelligence and
become you know what a lot of people
refer to as superhuman so what gets
people stuck in the first place
there are a number of things that get
people stuck i mean
let's talk about beliefs for a second
you know what our beliefs beliefs are
the meanings that we gave the
experiences of our life mostly before
the age of seven before a significant
portion of the prefrontal cortex is
fully formed we gave meanings to the
experiences of our life or other people
gave meanings to the experiences that we
were having right i remember distinctly
one time
i grew up in orange county california
and i don't know why in first grade they
had to choose which mission we wanted to
build along uh you know we had mission
san juan capistrano interesting so at a
paper mache and clay i'm building
mission san juan capistrano in my garage
and my dad walks in and he says hey let
me show you a better way to do that
the meaning i gave that experience was i
didn't know how to do it right
and just because of the way the
technology works what happens is that
starts to shape the lens through which
we experiences the future experiences of
our life so the next time you have an
experience you know you're approaching
that experience through the not knowing
how to do it right and because the brain
is a goal-achieving machine that's all
we start to notice right is what we're
not doing
right and in really no recognition of
what we're doing well so we get caught
in this in this psycho-cybernetic loop
and if you're not aware of it there's
really no way out of it because in every
new experience you're just going to
continue to focus on that which
reinforces the belief systems that you
established or the meaning that you gave
the experiences early on and you're
going to ignore everything else you
become trapped right in by your own
thoughts by your own thoughts by by your
own belief systems and
now we're really understanding that
those those meanings aren't just some
sort of um like marshmallow fluff or
kind of esoteric concept they're
actually wired into the neural networks
of your brain like we can't do that
today but in the future i would imagine
we'd be able to brain scan you and go oh
those are the neural networks that light
up when you feel like there's not enough
time or money's hard to make or you're
not good enough or you're not as far
along as you should be
and for years i you know struggled in
the current model of personal growth
because
it's one of those things where like
the the current model lends to
self-awareness and when i'm speaking on
stages i say you know how many of you
are aware now of your limiting beliefs
and everybody raises their hands i say
how many of you have done the events
you've done the programs you've done the
coaching you've done the different
protocols you've done the modalities and
make no mistake i'm not criticizing them
right this is an evolution of our own
ability to change ourselves and
everybody raises their hand right
they've been in the work but now they're
acutely self-aware and they have no idea
what to do about the patterns of
thinking that they're aware of that are
causing the stress anxiety and overwhelm
and holding them back so
that's where i was at one point and and
if there was like a question or or a
quest i was on
it was how do i go beyond self-awareness
and actually begin to change the way i
think
yeah that i think is super powerful so i
want to back up and sort of give people
the bricks that you're laying down here
so that this can all stack on itself so
basically people get themselves stuck
by the beliefs that they decide and
you've talked very powerfully about that
we'll need to go into that a little bit
here but so they decide to make a belief
often those beliefs are made when
they're young which i'm super freaked
out by how much our youth impacts us i
do not like that that is a deep problem
that i have with the universe
um but we start forming these beliefs
and then we get in these loops literally
the the whole notion of being stuck is
that you've got these beliefs they're
hardwired into your brain they become
the easier thoughts to think so you're
going to your brain when it goes into
the default network is just going to go
into these loops of negativity beliefs
i'm not good enough i'm not doing it the
right way to build even more evidence
for it right gain more momentum and so
now you're headed down the wrong path so
now how do we begin to unwind this stuff
so you say all right
personal development 1.0 does an amazing
job of getting people self-awareness
teaches them the tools and tactics to
look inward identify the emotions all
that stuff how do you now get to the 2.0
what is personal development 2.0 how
does it allow us to leverage
that um self-awareness to get to the the
phenom state
yeah that's the question right
um
and i think there's a lot of roads to
the mountaintop i have the perspective
that i have because that was my journey
and i had to start figuring out how to
how to walk in the darkness because
that's kind of what it's like what
darkness like meaning when you're caught
in this psycho-cybernetic loop can you
define psycho-cybernetics yeah so
um it's this idea that um what you
believe
uh will dictate your thoughts on a
moment-by-moment basis so if you believe
that you know money is hard to make as a
simple example you're not going to have
ideas or thoughts around money that
would be
lending to making it easily right
uh and so so what you believe dictates
what you think you can't get like an
apple from an orange tree and what you
think you then experience is an emotion
right and then that emotion then
dictates what actions you do or do not
take and they're always aligned right
your beliefs dictate your thoughts
dictate your emotions dictate your
actions which produce your results and
your results when you look at them then
just reinforce the original belief
and so we're caught in that construct
right but the linchpin is the belief
system so the question is how do i
actually change what i believe if my
beliefs really do dictate my destiny
right which is i'm not the only person
suggesting that the question becomes how
do i change my beliefs and in that is is
an inherent challenge because by
definition beliefs are that which are
true
right for us
um and so then the question is how do we
break out of this
my way of breaking out of it was at one
point to understand and i'll start to
kind of walk you through the structure
of it to understand that there were only
two states of emotional beingness that i
could be in at any given point in time
i would either be in a powerful state of
being states like joy curiosity
excitement calm peace
passion or i would be in a primal state
of being boredom anger frustration
some form of fear
i'm always in one of those two states
and i'm never in two states at one time
those map beautifully to the sympathetic
nervous system and the parasympathetic
nervous system right so in any moment
we're either in fight or flight or we're
in rest and relaxation
through my journey what i realized was
the only cause of that switch to be
flipped was my own thinking the meaning
that i was giving the experience the
experience itself wasn't dictating
whether i was in a primal state or a
powerful state whether i was in
sympathetic fight or flight or
parasympathetic rest and rest and
restoration or relaxation it was the
meaning i was giving the experience and
so that meant that all of my personal
suffering was within my own control
i needed to start controlling the
meaning i was giving the experiences of
life
as we started doing this work early i
didn't see this initially in the work
that i was doing with myself but as we
started building a team of coaches and
as the coaches were coaching people what
we consistently saw was that the quality
of the thinking
that was causing people to move into a
primal state which was really the only
problem because when you're in a
powerful state you're connected to
creativity to inspiration to vitality to
energy health automatically operates
everything that we want is in a powerful
state of being when you're in a primal
state you don't have access to any of
that so when entrepreneurs say to me for
example what's the number one thing you
would suggest to grow my business i
would say notice by moment by moment
what state of being you're in and use
whatever tools or technologies you have
access to to move back into a powerful
state that's where things just unfold
and i'm not saying you don't have to
take consistent action and work your ass
off to create success but you do it from
a powerful state it's very hard to do it
from a primal state
and what we were seeing consistently was
that the quality of thinking that was
causing people to move into a primal
state when we really looked at it worked
with them around it was that 100 of the
time it was untrue
the only thing they were thinking they
were thinking was untrue i'm not good
enough i'm not smart enough i'm not good
enough i'm not smart enough there's not
enough time now we can start to talk
about like the larger metaphysical
philosophy behind all of this right uh
but i'll give you a prime example i was
working uh
personally coaching a 29 year old
egyptian muslim young man super
successful had his first multi-million
dollar business at 19 years old was
large running one of the largest
companies in this category at 29 years
old and i've been coaching him and he
was out one night in south beach with a
bunch of movers and shakers
and
vice president of the sports team number
one dj fashion designers whatever it was
he called me the next day and he said
listen i moved into a primal state last
night and i couldn't get out of it so i
need you to coach me on it because i
know his his vision for his life now the
most important thing for him is to
operate from a powerful state of being
i said okay so
what what happened he said well i was
there and i noticed that i started
having anxiety so i know i moved into a
primal state i said what'd you do next
he said i took a look at the thinking
that was causing it i said what did you
find he said i was thinking that i don't
belong here i was like okay got it so
then what did you do and what we teach
we teach a couple of things but what we
teach at the highest level of this work
is that you're able to actually see the
thinking that's not true
is not true
and that's different than
a lot of the other
modalities i tried to use
to evolve
you can change your state
you can reframe something you can come
up with a better story
they're amazing tools out there like
breathwork plant tech i mean there's a
bunch of stuff out there which we can
get into right hack yeah it's nice
there's a bunch of stuff out there right
but i'm we're very focused on the
personal technology not the third party
tools right but i've explored a lot of
them so
what we believe is the fastest way for
you to eradicate a limiting belief is to
actually see the limiting belief is
untrue and the moment that happens
there's a reorganization in your brain
like you can't unsee it once you see the
lie is a lie
right there's a huge shift it reorients
you to the experiences of your life it
reorients you to you to money to
relationships so i said to him so what
happened when you saw that you were
thinking i don't belong here and he says
it seemed true
he goes now i knew it wasn't because he
bought in to what we teach
and i said okay great so i'll coach you
on it you know with coaching you have a
lot of leverage and you don't always
have to use the leverage i'm going to
give you an example of
but i knew he was a spiritual
his faith was very important to him so i
said let me ask you a question you
believe in god don't you he said yes i
said the omnipotent omniscient kind of
all-knowing type of god he goes
absolutely and i said then how did your
god put you in the wrong place on friday
night where you actually don't belong
and there was a pause
and i heard him on the other end of the
line and he goes oh my god and i said
what is it he goes
i belong everywhere i am
that's a fundamental reorientation to
the experiences of your life
and what i believe is that's the deepest
most permanent fastest way to actually
move through
the crazy unreality that we've created
for ourselves as a result of adopting a
bunch of other crazy people's beliefs
when we were kids right to start
reconnecting with what's really true
and so in that moment of seeing that you
actually believe everywhere belong
everywhere that you are you move back
into a powerful state and now you're
moving forward with your life in a
powerful way
it's interesting so i've heard you talk
a lot about the idea that basically
whatever happens is what is meant to
happen and in terms of the leverage of
coaching somebody like me that would
never work because i don't believe in an
omniscient god so i'm like
there are just too many things where the
outcome is just bad it's it was all bad
but i think that you're very right that
you can always reframe it and find
something good out of it so you can find
something good out of terminal childhood
cancer right but i would say objectively
that one falls into my human suffering
bucket i'm going to say no that's just
pretty bad you can learn something from
it no question you can reframe it
absolutely sure so how are you able to
have a breakthrough with somebody who is
an adult who like me doesn't believe
that everything happens for a reason
like is it just reframing are there
other tools like what do you lean on
yeah so what do you believe in in other
words in in your context in the
container that you've created because
you're creating it right like we don't
know if there's a god we assume there's
a universe we're sort of in it i mean we
call it the universe but that's just
language right we're just making up
names for [__]
so um the the question would be do i go
back to
einstein if he actually said it which i
think he did uh which is you know the
most important decision you make is
whether you live in a friendly or
hostile universe so that perspective is
a belief in how the human being
technology works in in in other words
whatever you believe because of the way
this whole structure and system works
and and how meaning then creates emotion
and and uh
neurobiological chemical cascades in
your body right like all this stuff like
you in that sense without even getting
really woo you're creating a reality
right i agree so then the question would
be what do you what do you believe in
drives everything because you know for
me i look at morehead as a mathematics i
don't i use the word god but what i
believe is that intelligence itself
right unbound intelligence
is all there is
and that unbound intelligence when you
say is all there is what do you mean
like the very fabric of space time sure
like if you talk about space-time or the
ether or the hindus call it the akasha
or the fifth element or in the beginning
there was a thing right uh for me it's
in it's intelligence and it's
mathematical in its expression uh and so
i believe in math right if you go back
to um like euclidean geometry right
there's a very like kind of spiritual
concept around all of these things and
looking at things like sacred geometry
and how how something is expressing
itself and these really deep
sophisticatedly intelligent patterns
right which one
could suggest is just chaotic like it's
the way that this all unfolded it had to
unfold this way because it was the only
way it could all work or it's supremely
intelligent so so the first thing i
would want to do is understand what do
you believe so that then we can have
this conversation within that context so
what do you believe
i believe purely in evolution so whether
that is divinely started or not because
i will be the first to admit there's
something that i don't understand and it
is something big and it leaves me an awe
and wonderment and so i am deeply moved
by the mysteries of the cosmos like that
[__] to me is so beautiful and so the
the states of awe or compassion or
connectedness or like you don't have to
pitch me on that i'm in man it's just i
don't think that one i don't think that
what makes this experience beautiful or
or even useful is that it is all
happening exactly as it was meant to
happen i feel like hey
something put
the the expansion of the universe the
expansion of species started and it all
has to obey the laws of physics okay
cool so now operating within that i find
so much power in going how does the mind
work so what is it that that i can
grab hold of what are the levers what
are the dials i don't need them to be
divinely inspired and they certainly can
be either way is fine by me like i don't
have a a
dog in that fight um it is simply i just
need to know the truth and so
what i have experienced thus far tells
me that
people in in some pretty beautiful ways
grapple with spiritual concepts as a way
to like make sense of everything sure so
love it respect it don't have any beef
with it the concepts that have an equal
amount of beauty for me come down to
biological truths and so once i
understand the biological truth and i
can understand the way that synapses
exist and work in the brain and the way
connections are made the way connections
atrophy so that i can make something
atrophy sort of at will i can make new
connections at will by doing things
practicing something eating it and so
once i understand those levers then i
can start pulling so a lot of the things
you talk about i feel like yeah that's
super powerful we agree on the thing
without agreeing why the thing exists
sure that makes sense yeah absolutely so
that's sort of the framework with which
i operate yeah you so we're going back
to this question right that i think i
think you're alluding to this idea where
i believe that life is working in
infinitely intelligent ways for our
greatest growth our greatest prosperity
our greatest evolution that at any
moment it's a moment of perfection right
that that that it is supposed to happen
and so um so in that we can we can live
with acceptance we can live with
surrender we may not actually see it in
the moment how it's working for us uh
but we can choose to trust that it is if
we want to um looking back last
statement you made i agree with
like totally you can decide to view this
as something that is working for me
right how the tony robbins question i
love this how's the worst thing that
ever happened to you actually the best
thing and that reframe just asking a
different question changes
everything so i'm with you on that it's
a choice yeah i think it's important for
us to
you know take a forensics approach to
our own lives to like uh observe deeply
to discover what we believe is true for
ourselves went so far in my life when i
look back
over every single experience that i
thought was a tragic experience at the
time of course because of cause and
effect it's been the same part of the
journey of the things that i cherish
most of my life
um
so so we get to create those frames
right and and what i would suggest is
those those frames do become our reality
they they do become our experience
because of the way the technology works
right i mean at any moment in time i
read some something recently and the
numbers always change
but they were talking about the part of
the brain that pays attention right the
reticular activating system and
something like eighty-eight percent of
what's going on in any given moment
you're not paying attention to like i'm
not paying attention to your wrist right
now it's still in my way right it's a
beautiful wrist
but i'm you know that that which we tend
to pay attention to is aligned with what
we believe and so that's all we get
so if you want you know more happiness
if you want more wealth if you want
deeper relationships if you want to have
more joy you want to have more fun you
want to you know achieve your full
potential and really make an impact in
the world then what's really important
is to get clear on what that could look
like for you and to make sure that what
you believe is congruent with that
outcome because if what you believe is
not congruent with that outcome just
neurophysiologically you're working
against yourself
right yeah talk to me about the power of
clarity one of the few people that i
hear talk about this and i think it's so
[__] important
yeah so like where to start with with
the power of clarity we talk about a
number of things right the power of
decision the power clarity the power of
gratitude the power questions
most people know what they don't want
but they don't know what they do want
you know if you say to somebody what
what what do you want they'll spend
maybe 10 seconds sifting around and then
start telling you exactly all the stuff
that they don't
and so it's important to have clarity on
what you want to create to have clarity
on the type of partner you want to have
in your life to have clarity on
the things that you want to learn
because
i believe that clarity is
intimately connected to imagination so
as we're getting clear on something
we're beginning to see what that thing
is right that we're getting more clarity
on and and we now know there was a study
done in
2009 at harvard where they brought in
piano players to play the piano and they
studied what parts of their brains lit
up and then they just had them imagine
playing the piano and the same parts of
the brains lit up and there's a study
after study after study that shows that
the brain doesn't know the difference
between imagination and reality so is
you're getting clear around something
you're actually building neural networks
as if that image or that experience had
already occurred i mean this is really
powerful because
so often people don't know how to
achieve something and because they don't
know how they don't spend a lot of time
getting additional clarity they don't
spend time imagining what the future
would look like with that thing or being
that thing or creating that thing
because it gets stuck on the how
and
what i would suggest is that if you're
willing to invest time in getting
clearer around something or imagining
you build neural networks that represent
the memory of an experience that has not
happened yet that's [__] powerful i
mean we're talking about like next level
mental technology because
if you had experienced the thing already
would you know how to do it
so what i would suggest is that it's
that change in the neural networks of
your brain that you can achieve through
clarity which is part of this kind of
imagination category i mean dispense it
talks about it with meditation and
visualization
other great teachers talk about it in in
this way you're able to start building
neural networks of experiences that have
not happened yet that i believe then
give you access to the thoughts the
ideas the perceptions and if you want to
talk about like creating the
synchronicities that actually close the
gap between that future and the present
moment all right say that in like a real
basic [__] way like give it to people
and like [__] ground ground don't let
not knowing how prevent you from
spending time getting additional clarity
or imagining because that's actually
what's required to happen in order for
you to know how
yeah that that i like your your whole
notion of getting
don't let
the indecision right
be born out of the fact that you're not
sure how this is all gonna play out
right so i thought that was so powerful
like to start moving and in the moving
in getting the clarity some of it will
come to you and moving forward some more
you talk about fog right it's like
people get stuck because they're not
clear so but but getting more clarity
people get paralyzed by not knowing some
kind of
never attainable omniscience around the
topic
and so they they stop right they move
into indecision they move into some form
of procrastination and the way you get
more clarity is the same way you drive
in fog you've got 10 feet of clarity the
way you get 10 feet more is to move
forward 10 feet right
you're never going to know right we're
all looking for this sort of
i heard one of your guests
recently talk about how fear is wanting
to have a predictable outcome around an
experience that you've never had before
right
and that's what we're all looking for
but that's not the way that it works you
get as clear as you can then you take
action and more clarity unfolds for you
how do you help people unwind the fears
around that is it all attacking the
beliefs like what are you really worried
about i'm worried i'm not good enough
that kind of thing yeah for us it's
really looking at what is the thinking
that's causing the emotional response
which is fear
and knowing that what's actually
happening and again this is just what
we're suggesting what's actually
happening is you've activated neural
networks that represent a dissonant
concept and your nervous system is
experiencing that dissonance is fear
your nervous system is telling you it's
not true
it's not true that you're not good
enough it's not true that you need to
get it all done it's not true that
you're going to end up living under the
bridge it's not true any of those things
aren't true
walk me through the journey to
discovering all of this stuff so
were 10 years ago were in addiction but
you
rock it i mean look i only know the sort
of external side of your story so i
wasn't there so i'm sure it wasn't as
easy as
one would believe seeing how far out of
that you've come
but like what were some key points on
that journey um
like a few moments that felt like whoa
this is like a lightning rod moment were
there those or was was it just sort of a
gradual stacking of mild insights what
did that process look like and how did
you keep yourself going
so i was
in the depths of my addiction
like i remember about three weeks before
i realized i had a problem which is
amazing uh to see that it i had these
experiences and didn't realize i had a
problem until three weeks later
it was the last time i was ever going to
buy pot
uh bought it from my pot dealer smoked
it on my
back porch
had still had a bag left after rolling a
joint filled the bag up with water so
that i wouldn't smoke it took it the
whole foods and dumped it in the garbage
can and three hours later was back at
whole foods pulling out of the garbage
can and drying it out on my back porch
right okay that's addiction
it's addiction and so um you know in in
the beginning it was just about trying
to figure out how to
untether myself from these addictive
patterns of behavior and i started
working that 12-step program
and uh and about three or four weeks
after i started working a 12-step
program i go to the airport you know you
have those like book moments like a book
decides it's developing a relationship
with you and like i go over i grabbed
this book off the shelf and it said
awakening the buddha within on on the
back of the book it had the four noble
truths of buddhism it said life is full
of suffering the suffering will happen
to you there's a way out of the
suffering and the way out of the
suffering is the eightfold path of
virtue and i don't know what the
eightfold path of virtue is i'm like but
it's more efficient than 12 steps they
only have eight
so
um so i start i read this book and i'm
like wow the things bill w was talking
about in 12 steps are very similar to
what buddha was talking about and then
an employee left a book on my desk
called kingdom principles by miles
monroe and i was like christ is saying
the same thing then i went to barnes
noble and i kid you not on the second
floor of the barnes noble i walk over to
a section that i didn't know existed
called self-help and think and grow rich
was sitting on the floor and i just
happened to pick it up i read the back
of the book bought the book so my
journey began right
and
um yeah it was a gradual progression it
was picking up these individual
distinctions it was it was realizing
that we're always sympathetic or
parasympathetic it was realizing that
that my emotional responses were being
dictated by my thoughts not by the
actual experiences uh it was starting to
to to to become more self-aware through
the work that we did i mean carol and i
went to india three times did really
deep intensive work there what what does
that mean when you go to india we're in
an ashram yeah we were at an ashram more
like a university it was like a
five-star ashram and and so are we
taking classes yeah taking classes doing
breath work meditation
um some of the breath work we did there
was really really really deep
and it allows you to tr
like get into the parasympathetic like
what are the
being wholly unfamiliar with this kind
of training um oh you've never done
breath work i have but like through
sam harris or so listen
this is i'm because i'm aware of when i
get into tom's uncomfortable world at
this point now so like my
my you know i don't know what i can give
you my theory about what happens with
the breath work that we did yeah but you
know i experienced what it was like to
be a turtle i had a conversation with
krishna are we talking like true true
like dmt-induced kind of things yes but
just breath
right i'm assuming this is in meditation
yeah how long breath takes a breath okay
uh is the breath work
different because i know you've done a
lot of meditation is there um a
different experience to breath work
versus meditation is it actually like a
where you're getting hypoxic or
something yeah it's a very active breath
work right that do you know wim hof's
method i've done wim hof smith is it
something intense like that we are yes
but for an extended period of time okay
and at that point
what i think happens is we begin to
detach from the mind
and
then these other experiences show up
right i mean i had never really
contemplated what it was like to be my
mom's you know tortoise
but for whatever reason that's what i
experienced right and as you begin to
experience these things you know
experiences change the brain
right in fact the only way you change
the brain is through experience right
like moment by moment by moment we're
recording right what's going on and
we're bill we're either reiterating the
neural networks that are there we're
building new neural networks or pruning
out old ones and so these are
experiences so you know to what extent
there's value experiencing being a
turtle i don't know but i've had the
experience
so it's in here now um and so you know
and a lot of people use
plant medicine for that right exploring
different experiences or dmt
um so yeah we've been on a we've been on
a a journey of personal exploration
and the one thing that that we started
to see
consistently as we were working with
people around their beliefs
which we believe
create the quality of their life moving
forward in every area like i can sit
with someone
and hear what they believe and tell them
what their life looks like i could get
real creepy and follow someone around
for three days without them knowing i
could sit down and pretty much tell them
what they believe right your beliefs
dictate your destiny and that's not some
you know
quotable
right it's it's the fact that it's at
the core of behavioral psychology right
your beliefs dictate your thoughts
dictate your emotions dictate your
actions to take your results which
reinforce your beliefs
and what we consistently saw was that as
we first started giving people
permission to change their beliefs by
realizing their decisions
right the beliefs are just decisions and
that you could just decide something
different and the whole machine would
start recalibrating around it and
reorienting around it if you were
willing to give yourself permission to
make a new decision about
life or money or relationships or
whatever it is
but then after that we consistently
started seeing that the quality of the
of the belief was that as we actually
worked with people they would say oh
it's actually not true
oh i see that it's not true for me it
doesn't need to be not true for me but
as we worked with them with our
methodology they would go wow
it was it's not even true
and it was never true back then
my dad was just well-meaning and wanted
to help me build a better mission san
juan capistrano he didn't tell me i
didn't know how to do it right
right
and so as we saw that then we started
finding even faster ways right now you
got to be open to it you got to be open
to the idea that any time you're moving
into a primal state it's only being
caused by your thinking and the quality
of the thinking is that it's not true
even though in the moment it's really
true for you
right
so and that's how we started creating
these really radical breakthroughs and
that was my experience i now
listen i i move into some form of
suffering daily right it's part of the
human experience i still have my
amygdala and my limbic system and my
right like we have pulled them out
but
um i'm very quickly able to reorient
myself because it's a beautiful binary
structure how did you get good at that
practice
the most important thing in my life on a
moment-by-moment basis
which sometimes i don't make the most
important thing but most of the time i
do is noticing what state i'm in and if
i've moved into a primal state
observing the thinking to see what it is
and going into an exploration of the
thinking knowing that it's not true if
it's causing me that emotion
and i do it over and over and over again
and then i supplement it i supplement it
with doing cold work
i supplement it with doing breath work i
supplement it with my nutrition so
you know that that has that that
philosophy has sort of become a pillar
of my personal growth and my personal
evolution yeah that's super powerful
so
now
putting this in in a framework of
you get triggered by something so you
said that there you go into a primal
state daily and you start your amygdala
and all that walk us through that
process that you go through to then get
back into that powerful state
yeah so
something will happen
um
a team member who i've spoken to three
times about the same issue will
incorrectly do the thing for the fourth
time
i'll notice that i'll get frustrated
and i'll look at the thinking
uh
now again
my should mean something different than
yours should i think
but but
what i believe is that what what i'm
thinking in that moment is that
i shouldn't have to continue to coach
them there are things that i need to do
that are more important
the fact that they can't get this thing
done properly is going to be a huge
disruption and i'll start going down a
rabbit trail around it right and i'll
notice that i've i'm doing that and i'll
go okay got it so if if if that whole
category of thinking is is making me
feel stressed or anxious or overwhelmed
i know those things aren't true
this doesn't threaten the organization
it's not taken away from the things that
i should be doing if this is what showed
up this is what i should be focused on
that's what great leaders do
there's a reason for this even though i
may not be able to see it yet
how can i be an even better leader for
this person what is it about the first
three times that i explain this thing to
them that is not clicking for them and i
can start to move into some form of
empathy some form of connection some
form of leadership
and you know as as leaders the the the
irony around all of it is that when we
approach our teams who are who are where
we have that type of experience with
them from anger from frustration from
irritation we're actually not good
coaches for them we can't move them
forward into doing the thing properly
but when we when we realize that the
frustration is coming from us and that
all the things that we think should be
that are not in that moment should not
be because they're not in that moment
and we become present to that moment
into that person from a powerful state
that's how we are able to feel good
about ourselves and actually support the
people around us
yeah that's cool and that's something
that you're able to help your clients do
faster and faster and faster is there
like uh
um
do you break that process down into
steps like step one identify the
thinking step two for sure
that's that's the
our approach in a nutshell which goes
much broader and much deeper right this
idea that you're you're in one of two
states
that you you if you want to be creating
a life you love or a business you love
or a team you love or a mission you love
and be successful it's from a powerful
state all right so to give people the
steps step one step one is notice when
you've moved into a primal state
step two know that the only thing that's
causing you to move into that emotional
state which is sympathetic is your own
thinking
step three
take a look at what the thinking is
step four play around with or be willing
to be open to the fact that if it's
moving you into a primal state it may
not be true right step five would be if
that's not true
then some form of the opposite must be
true what what might that be and step
six would be well what evidence do you
have for the fact that that would be
true
what happens over time is the brain
starts to even get acclimated to this
process so like i don't go through the
six step process every time right i
notice i have an emotional reaction and
i reorient myself fairly quickly and
like i said i'm a human being so i get
hooked on things that are triggers you
know for me all the time i just don't
get hooked as frequently and i don't
spend as much time on the hook
no i'm not super powerful yeah
where can people learn more about you
well people can go to our website
uh davidbayer.com we've got our mindhack
ebook there
which they can download for free and
we've got a ton of other information
videos information about our powerful
living experience
uh you know for people who are really
want to go deeper into their into their
personal growth
and not just become self-aware but go
beyond self-awareness and really learn
how to change their thinking
i love that man yeah
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
we see a world where
the biggest problems are being solved
and in our language that's that's
restoring intelligence to humanity
really helping humanity evolve to the
next evolution of who they are which is
an evolution of the nervous system it's
an evolution of intelligence um and so
that's our goal you know my my
experience was was suffering so we want
to help people end their suffering and
then go beyond that to have a powerful
living experience i love that man yeah
guys if you're looking for somebody that
can really articulate the steps of how
to make change this is your man it's
pretty incredible the stuff that he
gives away for free is already
extraordinary and then people really
vouch hard for the events and stuff that
he does so
if that is something that you want to do
in your life get unstuck man dive into
his world you will not regret it all
right if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
david my man thank you so much dude
can anyone become a great entrepreneur
yes but
do they do they have what it takes are
they willing to do whatever it takes
a lot of people
give up